# Tips for aspiring developers

> written around April '20

- Every developer has their own style and speed, respect them but still maintain the quality, if your team can't, just make it work even if it looks bad.
- Learn how to communicate within yourself and within the team or organization, this seems like a basic skill but it is not. Go figure it out yourself. Talk. Learn how to negotiate and propose.
- A developer must know how to take a step back, keep calm and rest. The more stressful you get the more bugs you make. You don't need to be emotional on these things and be toxic about it. Every time you fail, get back up, you'll solve it and grow.
- One must not be afraid to ask, asking for help is free but should avoid being annoying, learn how to do your research and be confident that you will be able to do it, because, everything is possible in software development. Accept that you don't know everything but you're not dumb not to use google. Analyzing the problem, researching, trial and error, patience, trouble shooting, a bit of luck are the keys.
- One must know how to focus (know what style and set up he/she is best in), know his/her weaknesses and strengths and must strive to grow each sprint. On a fast paced environment, like a start up company that releases every 1 to 2 week/s, it is impossible not to learn. Again, you are not the only engineer, you will eventually teach someone but you will always learn something on your sprint goals.
- Learn how to enjoy these struggles, you are getting paid to learn and build something with great people, there is nothing more satisfying than this, but if it feels like a routine, take a rest and build something else, perhaps, using a different stack or pick a new hobby, because sometimes, we just need a palate cleanser. Keep an open mind, it won't be forever that you're gonna use what you're comfortable with. If you wanna learn something new, a framework, a language, a new tech, don't be afraid to be a junior engineer again. Keep on learning while you still can, while you still have a lot of time. You won't be able to do that once you have additional personal/family responsibilities. 😆
- Think about the impact, what's at stake, what's the timeline (what can be done at some point, what's still impossible, what should be sacrificed [time, some features, implementations] to achieve something) what's the goal, learn how to teach and sometimes, you just bypass all the plans/processes and just do it, implement it anyway, if it works, GREAT.
